# Rachel-Asante-Department-Store-Database
Description:
  -When creating my Department database system from scratch, I decided to focus solely on a program that is meant to be used from an employee or manager’s perspective. This system consists of several tables, including products sold, stores, sells which acts as a catalog, location of aforementioned stores, customer, customer phone numbers, premium membership that provides discounts, orders, and delivers as a result of orders. 
  -The main purpose of this Department database is to provide the user with access to a vast majority of the information stored away in the tables. There are very few limitations in terms of what can be views, altered, and deleted by the user, hence the reason why it is more employee-oriented. A main menu is presented to the user upon entering the program, and they are given 7 options to choose from: access products, view store information, access catalog, customer information, access premium member information, view status of orders, and exit. Each of these choices then take the user to an outside function, some of which consist of another menu with more options specified for the category they selected. 
  -Within the products function, the user can choose to view a specific product’s information, change the rating of a product, and add or remove a product listing. In the customer function, the user can view customer information, update a customer’s address, and register a new customer. Similarly, in the premium membership function, the user can opt to register an existing customer for a membership or cancel a membership already in place. The remaining functions cover the baseline commands as they are stated in the menu prompt.

Problems Faced:
  -When writing the Store function, I was initially going to try and have the user search by state to find a store and its location. However, upon doing so, I struggled to find a way to display the various values for all stores that might reside in the same state as another. There were so many values that go into address, I decided to just have the prompt use s_id instead.
  -When writing the catalog function for sells, I experienced a bug where my function would print out the names and prices of products multiple times. In order to fix it, I had to tweak the query I used to access MySQL.
  -When writing the customer functions, I ran into some trouble trying to insert phone numbers, particularly when the user is prompted to do so. I was unable to figure out a way to efficiently insert multiple phone numbers if the user wants to enter more than one value for a new customer.
  -When writing the order and delivers function, I initially wanted to create a more complex system where the user could enter new orders or cancel existing ones. However, I found that it was a bit overwhelming to account for both the orders table and the delivers table since they require some extra steps the previous functions did not, such as calculating what the order total would be if the customer who placed the order is a premium member with the common 10% discount.

What I learned from this project/course:
  -I developed many skills during the time I spent on this project. It solidified my ability to utilize sources around me when I find myself in a slump, whether it’s fellow classmates answering my questions or a vigorous Google search session. I reaffirmed how important it is to put in extra time when preparing to write code, being sure to map out my end result in visuals and outlines before I even start the actual programming portion.
	-Similarly, I took away a great number of experiences when looking back on my time in this class. I learned the importance of practice and extra reading, finding that I earned the best results when I took the time to apply information from the textbook with subjects we cover in class. I also learned that persistence is key, especially when faced with a problem that might seem too difficult to solve. In the end, every complex query has an answer- more often than not, it usually has a much simpler solution than I am thinking!
